# What are Data Types?

* In Javascript, Data type are defined that what type of value can be stored inside the variables.

## There are two types of data types in Javascript.
    1. primitive data type
    2. Non-primitive data type

# Primitive Types

* primitive data types are immutable(non-modifiable) data types. 
* Once a primitive data type is created we cannot modify it.

Primitive data types in JavaScript:

 1. Number - Integers, floats
 2. String - Any data under single quote, double quote or backtick quote
 3. Boolean - true or false value
 4. Null - empty value or no value
 5. Undefined - a declared variable without a value
 6. Symbol - A unique value that can be generated by Symbol constructor
 7. BigInt

# Number

* Numbers are integers and decimal values which can do all the arithmetic operations.

Example: 

```js
 // Number data type

 let age = 35
 const PI = 3.14  // pi a geometrical constant
 console.log("age = ", age) // age value = 35
 console.log("age type = ", typeof (age)); // Number

 console.log("PI value = ", +PI); // PI Value = 3.14
 console.log("PI value = ", typeof (PI)); // Number
```

## String: 

* Strings are used to represent textual data, such as a sequence of characters.

    * Single quotes: 'Hello'
    * Double quotes: "Hello"
    * Backticks: `Hello`

```js
// string

let space = ' ' // an empty space string
let language = 'JavaScript'

console.log(space)
console.log("language = ", language); // JavaScript
console.log("type of language = ", typeof (language));  // String

const str1 = "learn Javascript";
const str2 = 'Love Javascript';
console.log(`Print str1 ${str1} and str2 ${str2}`);

```
* Single quotes and double quotes are practically the same and you can use either of them.

* Backticks are generally used when you need to include variables or expressions into a string. This is done by wrapping variables or expressions with ${variable or expression} as shown above.

* If we try to modify the string stored in variable *str*, JavaScript should raise an error.

```js
language[0] = 'L'

```
* This expression does not change the string stored in the variable *str*. So, we can say that strings are not modifiable or in other words immutable.

* Primitive data types are compared by its values.

```js
let numOne = 3
let numTwo = 3

console.log(numOne == numTwo)      // true

let js = 'JavaScript'
let py = 'Python'

console.log(js == py)             //false 

let lightOn = true
let lightOff = false

console.log(lightOn == lightOff) // false
```

# Boolean: 

* It is used to represent a boolean value, which can be either true or false.

```js
const isEligible = true;
console.log(isEligible)
```

# Undefined: 

* It represents a value that is not yet defined or initialized to a variable.

```js
let name;
console.log(name);
console.log(typeof(name)) // undefined
```

# Null: 

* The null data type mean empty value

```js
const age = null;
console.log(age);
console.log(typeof(age)) // object

```

# Symbol: 

* Symbol in JavaScript are used to represent a unique and immutable value.
```js
const firstName = symbol('naveen');
const lastName = symbol('rapelli');
console.log(firstName + ' ' + lastName)
 ```

## BigInt: 

* BigInt is a new numeric data type that can represent integers with arbitrary precision.
```js
const bigNum = 1234455566671n;
console.log(bigNum);

```

# Non-primitive data types

* Non-primitive data types are modifiable or mutable. 
* We can modify the value of non-primitive data types after it gets created.
* Non-primitive data types cannot be compared by value

* There are 3 Non-Primitive data types

        1. An object
        2. An array
        3. A date

# Array

* An array is a list of data values in a square bracket.
* Arrays can contain the same or different data types.
* Array values are referenced by their index.
* the array index starts at zero. the second element at index one, and the third element at index two, etc.

```js
// creating array.
  let nums = [1, 2, 3]
// changing array value 1 to 10 --> index 0 is 1
  nums[0] = 10
//Outout
 console.log(nums)  // [10, 2, 3]
```
* As you can see, an array, which is a non-primitive data type is mutable. 
* Non-primitive data types cannot be compared by value. Even if two non-primitive data types have the same properties and values, they are not strictly equal.

```js
let nums = [1, 2, 3]
let numbers = [1, 2, 3]

console.log(nums == numbers)  // false

let userOne = {
name:'ramu',
role:'loves',
country:'India'
}

let userTwo = {
name:'ramu',
role:'loves',
country:'India'
}

console.log(userOne == userTwo) // false
```
* we do not compare non-primitive data types. Do not compare arrays, functions, or objects.
* Non-primitive values are referred to as reference types, because they are being compared by reference instead of value. 
* Two objects are only strictly equal if they refer to the same underlying object.

```js
let nums = [1, 2, 3]
let numbers = nums

console.log(nums == numbers)  // true

let userOne = {
name:'ramu',
role:'loves',
country:'India'
}

let userTwo = userOne

console.log(userOne == userTwo)  // true
```

## Object: 

* Collection of value in the form of key-value pairs which can include properties and methods.
```js
let user = {
    name: "learn",
    lastname: "javascript",
    isDeveloper: true,
    age: 20
}
console.log(user);
console.log(typeof user);
```

# Array:
* Array represents an ordered collection of values, which can be of any data type.

```js
let courses = ['HTML', 'CSS', 'JavaScript'];
console.log(courses);
```

# Function: 
* Functions are reusable blocks of code that can be called by other parts of the program.

```js
function greet() {
    console.log('Hello Developer, Good Morning');
}

greet(); // calling function
```

### Exercise: Level 1
1. Declare a variable named learn and assign it to an initial value 'JavaScript'.
2. Print the string on the browser console using console.log().
3. Declare a variable named age and assign it to an initial value 30.
4. Declare a variable named eligible and assign it to an initial value true.
5. Declare a variable named empty and assign it to an initial value empty.







